Multiplayer version mismatch documentation (#2116)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/networking/multiplayer/MultiplayerVersionMismatch.md

# Multiplayer Version Mismatch

In order to keep the multiplayer simulation in sync, it's important that all connected multiplayer endpoints are running the same multiplayer version.

> For example, suppose a server is running a build an old multiplayer player component. When a client's player tries to sends new network input to the server, the server won't know how to handle the input. Servers and clients must be running the same version of all the multiplayer components (components which communicate to each other over the network); any differences can lead to unexpected behavior. The multiplayer versioning feature will warn users upon finding a mismatch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider a server that is running a particular build of a multiplayer game. If the client is then updated  and has changes to update its networked components, the server may not know how to handle updated network properties or even be able to serialize network packets correctly. 

Servers and clients must be running the same version of all the multiplayer components (components which communicate to each other over the network); any differences may lead to unexpected behavior. 

O3DE networking provides multiplayer version checks to identify and guard against this unexpected behavior.
```

## How to enable the Multiplayer Version Mismatch feature:

> Multiplayer version mismatch detection is enabled automatically inside the [Multiplayer Gem](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/multiplayer/). If two multiplayer endpoints connect with different versions, a Multiplayer::VersionMismatchEvent [AZ::Event](/docs/user-guide/programming/az-event/) will be triggered, and debug logs containing information about which auto-components are mismatched will be printed to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiplayer version mismatch detection is enabled automatically inside the [Multiplayer Gem](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/multiplayer/). If two multiplayer endpoints connect with different versions, a Multiplayer::VersionMismatchEvent [AZ::Event](/docs/user-guide/programming/az-event/) will be triggered.  In addition, information about which auto-components are mismatched will be printed to the console and written to logs to aid debugging.
```

## Relevant Console Variables (CVars)

> **sv_versionMismatch_autoDisconnect**  *true | false* Determines if a mismatched connection with automatically terminate. It's recommended to keep this true; even minor differences between the version of a multiplayer component can cause unexpected behavior.

Reviewer: We should add this to the debug version of network settings.

Author: settings.md updated!

> **sv_versionMismatch_sendManifestToClient**  *true | false* Determines if the server will send all its individual multiplayer component version information to the client when there's a mismatch. Upon receiving the information, the client will print which components are different to the console. Provided for debugging during development, and is suggested to mark false for release builds in order than clients to not have access to any multiplayer component information that should be kept private (component names and version hashes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**sv_versionMismatch_sendManifestToClient**  *true | false* Determines if the server will send all its individual multiplayer component version information to the client when there's a mismatch. Upon receiving the information, the client will print which components are different to the console. Its recommended to set to false for release builds. This is to prevent clients having knowledge to any multiplayer component information that should be kept private (component names and version hashes).
```

**bg_viewportConnectionStatus** *true | false* If true, the viewport connection status system will display on-screen warnings whenever important  multiplayer events occur; this includes version mismatches.

## How it works behind the scenes:
1. AzAutoGen creates a unique 64-bit hash value for each auto-component xml it digests.
    1. The 64-bit hash will be stored in the ComponentData class that’s passed to the global MultiplayerComponentRegistry
2. During application start up, as all the gems are registering their components with the MultiplayerComponentRegistry, the MultiplayerComponentRegistry will combine each component’s hash to create its own 64-bit system version hash.

> 3. The MultiplayerComponentRegistry’s version hash is sent from the connector (ie: client) to the acceptor (ie: server) as part of the MultiplayerPackets::Connect packet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On a connection event the MultiplayerComponentRegistry’s version hash is sent from the connector (typically the client) to the acceptor (the server) as part of the MultiplayerPackets::Connect packet.
```

4. Server will compare the client’s version-hash with its own to make sure it matches
    1. If there's a multiplayer system version mismatch then...
        1. A version mismatch packet is exchanged containing the version hash of each individual auto-component in order that the server and client know exactly which components are out-of-date.
        2. Error logs will be reported

>         3. An AZ::Event is broadcast (Subscribe to the event via AZ::Interface<IMultiplayer>::Get()->AddVersionMismatchHandler).

Reviewer: Do we want to talk about disconnect here?

Author: fixed!
